[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: In my last
conversation with Dr. Joe
Dispenza, we talked
about the placebo effect
and that we are the effect.
It's not something
outside of ourselves.
That information matters.
What also matters is how these
subconscious patterns end up
ruling us, individually
and collectively.
Today, we're going to take a
look at the collective belief
and also why we're able to
affect each other's quantum
field in areas such
as remote healing.
Again, fabulous
talking with you.
That last conversation
was hot, and we
said we were going to pick up.
And we want to pick up with
the notion of perceptions
and beliefs before
we get into this.
And we have a really cool
video to watch in a moment.
>>JOE DISPENZA: Sure.
Well, if you think about
it, most of our thoughts
and feelings come from
our past experiences.
We said in the last episode
that our brain is an artifact.
It's a record of all the things
we've learned and experienced.
Our brain is a reflection
of our external environment.
And every time we
have a new experience,
those experiences stamp
networks of neurons into place.
The end product
of that experience
is called an emotion.
So if you look at how you think
and how you feel, for the most
part, it comes
from our memories.
So if you take a
series of thoughts
that are connected to
a series of feelings,
you have a thought that's
connected to a feeling,
and a thought connected to
a feeling, a thought that's
connected to a feeling--
that's called an attitude.
So if you have a
series of good thoughts
that are connected to a series
of good feelings, you say hey,
you need to hang
out with me today.
I have a pretty attitude.
But if you have a series
of negative thoughts
that are connected
to some bad feelings,
you say you have a pretty
bad attitude today.
So how you think and how you
feel creates a state of being.
So attitudes are
shortened states of being.
Does that make sense?
So if you take an attitude, an
attitude, an attitude, and you
string attitudes together,
that creates a belief.
Now a belief is
just the thought you
keep thinking over and over
again until you hardwire it
in your brain.
And beliefs are created
from past experiences,
so the very boundaries of
our beliefs are how we feel.
So when our beliefs
are challenged,
it usually doesn't feel right.
OK?
>>REGINA: Right
>>DISPENZA: So, if how
you think and how you feel
creates a state of being, and
an attitude is a state of being,
and you're chunking
different attitudes together,
then a belief is an
extended state of being.
Does that make sense?
>>REGINA: Mm-hm.
>>DISPENZA: So if you
keep thinking and feeling
and feeling and thinking,
as we said in the last show,
you condition the body to
become the subconscious mind.
The body becomes the mind.
So most beliefs are
subconscious states of being.
We don't even know that
we have beliefs about God,
about money, about
relationships, about love,
about freedom, because they're
programmed subconsciously.
So then if you string a
belief, a belief, a belief,
and a belief together,
that creates a perception.
And our perceptions
have everything
to do with the choices
we make, the things
we create in our life, the
behaviors that we demonstrate,
and even the relationships
that we have.
So thoughts and feelings
create attitudes,
attitudes create beliefs, and
beliefs create perceptions.
So then if a series of
beliefs creates perceptions,
then most people are
perceiving their life
through the lens of the
past, and they will only
look for the
familiar, which means
there's a good possibility
that they're editing out
most of reality.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: So--
>>REGINA: Tom Campbell calls
that rendering of reality.
>>DISPENZA: Right
>>REGINA: Collectively
or individually.
It's rendered according to that
thing you're talking about.
>>DISPENZA: We could call
it pattern recognition.
>>REGINA: Which is kind of like
a video, rendering a video.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
And you filter.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's right.
>>DISPENZA: It's a filter.
So it's interesting, because
most people's beliefs
are subconscious
states of being.
And they only become conscious
of those beliefs when they're
initiated in their life, or
challenged in their life,
and then they have to
reconstruct the belief, which
means in order to
change a belief
or perception about
yourself and your life,
you have to change how
you think and feel.
You have to change
your state of being.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
OK.
So now, I have a question then.
What's the difference between
habitual thought and belief?
Is it essentially
the same thing?
>>DISPENZA: It's the same thing.
A habitual thought
ultimately becomes a belief.
But there's an
emotional component
that goes along with it, right?
Because most people, you say
to them, hey, I don't know,
Jesus Christ was married.
Oh, that doesn't feel right.
Because you're
challenging their belief.
Well, most of your beliefs
come from past experiences,
and your exposure to
experiences in the past.
So all beliefs,
then, your beliefs
are different than my beliefs.
I mean, I grew up thinking
Jesus Christ was Italian,
because my grandmother
prayed to him in Italian.
He looked Italian
in all the pictures.
And I was Italian,
raised Italian.
>>REGINA: Oh, I
thought he was Nordic.
He had blonde hair and blue eyes
in the picture in our house.
>>DISPENZA: Yes,
so there you go.
So our beliefs, then, based
on our past experiences,
really begin to cause
us to filter reality
for the most part.
>>REGINA: And you were
telling me off camera
that in writing this book, you
just kept thinking, holy cow,
am I programmed.
And we all are.
I mean, there's no one that's
really-- if you're human
and you've been around the
planet any length of time,
you're not exempt
from programming.
>>DISPENZA: And it's
a cultural phenomenon.
>>REGINA: It's a
cultural phenomenon.
>>DISPENZA: And I think
more so now than ever,
because information is coming
at us at such a rapid rate.
I'm concerned that the
degree in which we're
being program so quickly.
So you don't know that
the water's turning up
when it's starting to boil
until you start to feel it.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
That's with the advent of
modern times and media.
And on that note, thank you.
That's a wonderful segue.
We're going to take
a look at a video.
I love this piece of video.
I had remembered this
particular thing,
and found the little clip.
The exact clip we needed about
programming women in America
to begin smoking.
That's the example
they use in this.
Let's take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>Here are the facts.
Public opinion is big business.
As of 2011, there were more than
7,000 public relations firms
in the United States alone.
These companies work on
behalf of corporations, trade
organizations, or
individuals who
hope to put a positive
spin on their image,
whether it's a celebrity
trying to salvage
his or her reputation
after a meltdown,
a musician promoting an
album, or a business combating
negative press, chances
are you've recently
encountered PR work, and
you might not have known.
There's no denying
the importance
of this multi-billion
dollar industry.
But what exactly is it?
How does it work?
And who invented it?
Here's where it gets crazy.
The art of modern
public relations
can be generally traced to
one man, Edward Bernays.
There were other
earlier innovators,
but none altered the social
landscape of North America
as profoundly.
Born in Vienna, Austria
in 1891, Bernays' family
moved to New York City about
a year after his birth.
He was the nephew of Sigmund
Freud, and like his uncle,
Bernays was captivated
by the convoluted
processes of the human mind.
Bernays often consulted
his uncle's work,
and he was the first to
incorporate psychology
and other social
sciences into PR.
Yet where Freud sought
to uncover motivations,
Bernays sought to mask them.
And Bernays' clients were
companies rather than
individuals.
For example, one
of his early cases
involved Lucky Strike
Cigarettes in the 1920s.
The American Tobacco Company
asked him to expand sales.
Women would be an ideal market,
but there were problems.
First, women didn't care for
the green packaging of Lucky
Strikes, and the
manufacturer concluded
that changing the color
was too expensive.
Second, it was taboo for
women to smoke in public.
Bernays took a unique
approach to these obstacles.
First, he recommended that
if the packs must stay green,
they should make green the
premier colour of the fashion
season.
During his Green Ball
Campaign, Bernays
convinced French designers
to incorporate green
into their latest fashion lines.
And not just any green, but
the specific dark green shade
of Lucky Strike packaging.
He also engineered a green
gala at the Waldorf Astoria,
featuring some of society's
most prominent taste makers.
To address the problem
of smoking in public,
he linked Lucky
Strike cigarettes
to the women's
liberation movement,
arranging for young women to
march down Fifth Avenue smoking
and calling the cigarettes
torches of freedom.
Instead of appearing
to sell cigarettes,
this seemingly
spontaneous march appeared
to be a part of the struggle
for gender equality.
Suddenly, Lucky Strike
cigarettes didn't just
have packaging that matched
the latest Parisian fashions,
they also made a statement
about women's equality.
It's easy to see how these
associations could skew market
opinion, and the campaign
was enormously successful.
If you're like most
people, then you probably
assume that you know where
your opinions come from.
And, if you're like most
people, you're probably wrong.
Humans tend to
think of each belief
as the result of a
rational analysis.
But this is not entirely true.
Instead, our opinions are subtly
influenced in numerous ways,
and we're often not
aware of this process.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>REGINA: Mm.
>>DISPENZA: Amazing.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>DISPENZA: Well,
it's very, very cool,
because the same
mechanisms that take
place in Pavlovian conditioning
is the same mechanisms that
are taking-- are the
same mechanisms that
are taking place here.
In other words, when you
give a dog a delicious meal
and you ring a bell, in
time, in the anticipation
or the expectation
of that event,
begins to produce the
body physiologically
preparing itself for the event.
So when you do it
in advertising,
you're appealing
to people's lack.
You're appealing to a
certain lack that they have.
But then they begin to
associate some icon.
Some idea.
Like, for the example
women's freedom,
a perfect icon combined
with strong signals,
sensory signals,
like the color green.
>>REGINA: Marching down
Fifth Avenue together.
>>DISPENZA: Marching
down Fifth Avenue.
And everybody wants freedom.
And they want to
be an individual.
So if you expose people
to that enough times,
they're going to, just like
Pavlov's dog, automatically
gonna be moved, be
motivated to make
a choice equal to meet that
exact particular outcome.
And that's how
conditioning works.
>>REGINA: But it makes you
feel foolish as a human being
to see what easy targets we are.
And as he said, that
was in what 2011?
So you can ratchet that
number-- well, the economy,
maybe knock it
down a little bit.
7,000 firms in
this country there
to shape our perceptions and
desires to drive consumerism.
Which becomes neurotic.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
Well, again, when I wrote
"You Are the Placebo,"
there was a whole element
that was happening
to me behind the
scenes of my awareness.
I started becoming so conscious
of so much programming--
I don't spend a lot of time
watching syndicated television,
but if I'm in a
hotel, and sometimes I
turn it on and watch
the news, I find
myself responding to TV ads
by yelling at the television
like, no way.
No way am I going
to believe that.
So if you believe that
bugs are going to come out
at a certain time a year, and
those exact bugs are going
to give you the
flu, and you need
a flu shot to counteract
those particular bacteria,
then you better
take that flu shot.
But the majority of those
people who get the flu shot
get the flu anyway,
because that's
where their attention is.
>>REGINA: It's true.
>>DISPENZA: I personally
don't believe in germs.
I just don't.
I mean, if I believed in germs,
I would be sick all the time
doing what I do.
So a belief, then, is
a strong statement.
It's a strong state of being
where mind and body have been
programmed in a
particular pattern.
And we can use beliefs
to our advantage,
and we can use beliefs,
our conditioning,
to our disadvantage,
to programming.
>>REGINA: So when you were
writing "You Are the Placebo,"
you really took great pains to
add in here a lot of science
and measurements so we could
see the exact effect of what
our minds are doing.
Why did you start using
all these measurements?
>>DISPENZA: Well,
again, one of the things
that happened, Regina, at some
point after "What the Bleep,"
after the movie, "What the
Bleep," people were asking,
how do you do it?
Why is it so hard to change?
We started teaching workshops,
teaching people the how-to.
And the first year or
so, nothing happened.
And then, all of a sudden,
in some of our more
progressive workshops,
we saw people standing up
that had MS, that were
paralyzed for 10 years,
walking across the
front of the room.
And we saw people
with lupus get better.
We saw people with ver-- really
serious chronic conditions,
Hashimoto syndrome, all cancers,
a lot of cancers changing.
And so what I
realized was that we
were signaling new genes in new
ways right during the event.
People were transforming.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DISPENZA: So I
figured, if something
is taking place in real
time, we better measure it.
So then, I brought
together a team
of researchers, neuroscientists,
and technicians,
and biologists, and
quantum physicists--
>>REGINA: Yes.
It was a great team.
>>DISPENZA: --to
measure the effects.
And so the reason I wanted to
do that was to demystify it.
We started teaching these
events called Information
To Transformation.
You give people information,
they learn information,
they make new connections
in their brain.
If they can repeat
that information,
then they're neurologically
wiring networks in there,
because they're
building a model.
If you give them
some instruction
to get their behaviors
to match their intention,
and they can apply that
information that they've
installed the circuits
in their brain,
they should have some type
of change or transformation.
But if I can measure that
transformation in real time,
then that's more
information for me
to teach transformation
the next time.
And we can close the gap between
knowledge and experience.
And so, I am humbled.
When I say humbled, and at
the same time, so enthusiastic
that common people are
doing the uncommon.
And I have been moved
to tears in observing
some of these changes.
And I love the
idea that you don't
have to be a
Buddhist monk, or you
don't have to have 40,000
hours of meditation,
or you don't have to be an
academic, or a researcher,
or you don't have to
be a nun, or a priest.
That you can be a common
person, and this is a skill.
And once you understand
how it all works,
you can get better at doing it.
And I now know, after all
the research that I've done,
is that you and I are absolutely
at our best when we get out
of the way.
There's no doubt about that.
And that you will never change
the brain with the brain.
You will never change
the ego with the ego.
The program will never
change the program.
The personality will never
change the personality.
Matter will never change matter.
Only when you and I
become pure consciousness.
In other words, if you're
going to heal by thought alone,
you have to become
thought alone.
And you and I have all the
biological and neurological
machinery to do this.
When we live by the
hormones of stress,
as we said in the last
show, the majority
of our attention
and our awareness
is on objects, and things, and
peoples, and people in our--
>>REGINA: It's on
the material world.
>>DISPENZA: It's
It's on our bodies.
And it's on time.
The body, the
environment, and time.
And when we put
all our attention
on the body, the
environment, and time,
then we're slaves to our body,
the environment, and time.
Here's the problem.
When it comes time to
change or affect reality,
we're matter trying
to change matter.
And so, we'll try to
force the outcome.
We'll try to
control the outcome.
predict the outcome.
We'll always brace ourselves
for the worst case scenario,
and the future based on
our memory of the past.
Why?
Because we're more
particle than wave.
We're more matter,
and less energy.
And we're vibrating at
the same speed as matter.
So we have to be cunning.
We have to be competitive.
We have to be manipulative.
We have to do whatever
the limited resources we
have to affect some
type of change.
There's nothing wrong with that.
It's just that we feel
separate from possibility,
because that's where we're
focusing our attention.
But when we did our research,
we found without a doubt,
over and over again,
that the moment you
become nobody, no
one, no thing--
>>REGINA: And that language
is big in the meditation.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
It absolutely is.
Because when you become nobody,
no one, no thing, nowhere,
in no time, when you become
pure consciousness, a thought
in possibility,
that is the moment
you begin to walk through the
door to the quantum field.
You can't walk through
the door as a somebody.
You can't be a mother.
You can't be an attorney.
You can't be a wife.
You can't be a face.
You can't be a wardrobe.
You can't be your associations
to cars or your problems.
You have to become
pure consciousness.
So it's ironic.
In order for you to
change your body,
you got to forget
about your body.
In order for you to
change your identity,
you've got to forget
about your identity.
>>REGINA: OK now, when
you're doing that meditation,
you're triggering something,
because a lot of people
are doing this for their bodies.
And say, for women,
a lot of people
are doing it for body image,
because of the self-- because
of that same industry
we just looked at.
Because of self-loathing.
Body image, loathing is rampant.
I mean, certainly
the majority of women
have some issue with
their body, and including
the most beautiful, most--
other women would say,
you're so beautiful.
You're so thin.
Doesn't matter.
It's been drilled in so that we
would have that sense of lack,
and then want for product.
So in that situation,
how do you see that?
>>DISPENZA: So let's talk
about it on two levels.
OK.
When I talk about, if you
want to change something
in your environment,
something in your life,
you want to create
you have to forget about
your past, present life.
That's what I mean.
If you want to heal your body
or change something about
your body, you cannot be your
body in order to do that.
If you want to create
some new future time,
you have to forget about
predicting the future time
based on the past
memory, or linear time.
So when I say that we
have to become nobody,
what I mean by that
is that we have
to detach from our
association to the body.
We have to detach
from our association
to the things and people
in our environment
that reaffirm our identity,
and we have to transcend time.
So only when we do that, if
we're going to heal by thought
alone to become thought
alone, that's the moment
we are in the unknown.
When you are taking
your attention
off the known, off the particle,
and putting it on the unknown,
you're putting it on the 99.9--
>>REGINA: On the
field of potential.
>>DISPENZA: You
are in that field.
Now, you're ready to
carve out a new reality.
So second point is
that, absolutely, we've
been conditioned.
This is so unfortunate,
that so many people
think that beauty has
to look a certain way,
like an anemic, emaciated,
underweight, battered person
that looks very unhappy.
And don't you know that you
will never arrive there?
And so people have an
image in their mind
of how they should look.
And they will never
arrive at that,
but that's what will
keep them consuming.
Because the lack that
they feel in the ideal
that they're trying to reach
will never be fulfilled,
so they'll keep consuming,
because they believe
that change happens
outside of them.
True change happens from within.
And when we begin to remove some
of those layers and masks that
block the flow of the divine
in us, when we start overcoming
ourselves in certain
ways, the intelligence
that's giving us life
begins to come out of us.
That's when we start
to feel joyful.
Because it's, we're
happy for no reason,
because it's
happening from within.
So that's--
>>REGINA: And that's
kind of a conundrum
there, too, because you
have women and men-- I mean,
there are men having
various implants
in their calves
and other places.
I mean, now it's affected all
of us in the Western world.
And in the Asian world as well.
I remember going
over there and seeing
billboards for skin
whitening, and girls
with white, white faces, and
beautiful, nice, dark bodies,
but white faces, because
of the perception
that white was more desirable.
And it doesn't matter.
It's around the planet.
Anything that you're not is
what you think you should be.
So we have a double
problem here.
In this kind of
self-loathing, there's
the problem of breaking
the trance of what
is beauty, what is the
notion of beauty, which
is highly individual
and generated
from the inside, first of all.
>>DISPENZA: It's no different
than that Bernays thing
we just saw.
It's the same exact thing.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DISPENZA: It's still
the same conditioning.
>>REGINA: Same conditioning.
But instead what
you'll have is someone
maybe listening to you right now
and saying, OK, I can do this.
I can do this.
I want to be 112 pounds.
But still, it's buying
into that exact thing.
>>DISPENZA: Exactly.
But again, let's examine this.
I think it's fundamentally
important for people
to realize.
When you're getting
beyond your identity,
and you become a
though and possibility,
something amazing happens
over and over again.
We've measured it
on so many people.
When you're living by the
hormones of stress, fear,
anxiety, worry, anger,
aggression, hostility,
judgment, envy, and insecurity,
jealousy, hopelessness,
powerlessness,
depression, guilt, shame--
those are all created by
the hormones of stress.
Psychology calls those normal
states of consciousness.
Those are altered
When we live by those
emotional states consistently,
and the brain is being
driven by those hormones,
the brain is in high emergency.
And it's in a very
high brainwave pattern.
And in that high
brainwave pattern,
that hyper-aroused state, you
will not take your attention
off the outer world.
You know why?
Because the innate
mechanisms say
that there's a predator
around the corner.
There's danger
out there, and you
don't want to take
your attention
off the outer environment,
and why would you
want to go in and create?
You believe the outer world is
more real than the inner world.
And because your attention
is going from your problems,
to your relationship, to your
Facebook, to your Twitter,
to your kids, to your
car, to your face,
to your weight, your
attention is fragmented.
If you were to look at
how the brain begins
to compartmentalize--
>>REGINA: You have
pictures of it.
>>DISPENZA: --the
hormones of stress
create very incoherent, very
arrhythmic brainwave patterns.
That incoherence
over time begins
to create a very
incoherent signal
down the central nervous system,
which controls and coordinates
all those systems, and the
body moves out of balance.
Now, the moment you
begin to open your focus,
and the moment you begin to
become nobody, no one, nothing,
nowhere, and no time-- I've
seen this over and over again--
you become consciousness.
A thought in possibility.
The moment that happens,
the identity is gone.
And the brain says, thank
god he's out of the way.
Thank god she's out of the way.
And all of a sudden, those
different compartments that
were no longer
talking to each other,
they start to reach out and
connect with one another,
because it's not
survival mode anymore.
In other words, in survival,
you gotta take care of yourself.
Compartments of
the brain say, hey,
this isn't the time
to communicate.
This is a time to be selfish.
Right?
But when you begin
to open your focus,
the brain begins to start
to get highly organized.
Very integrated
and very coherent.
And different
compartments of the brain
start talking to each other.
We call that a
whole brain state.
The front of the brain
starts talking to the back.
The right side of the brain
starts talking with the left,
and you see this kind of
psychic union going on.
And if you look
around at the person
while they're doing that,
this is what you see.
You see the person not
wanting the moment to end.
They are so connected to
something greater that they're
trusting in their
future in that moment.
Now I call that the
natural state of being.
And we get to this
point where we
feel connected when we're
more energy and less matter.
We're more wave
and less particle.
And we feel connected
to a future.
And when that occurs,
the field around the body
begins to get very large.
How do I know?
I measured it.
So now, the person gets
into that whole state,
they are no longer
seduced by the things
in their external environment.
In other words, the
more whole you feel,
the less pleasure you seek.
The less whole you feel,
the more pleasure you seek.
So in the beginning
stages when we were first
doing the measurements and I
was watching this one woman,
I was watching her
brain, and I was
watching it get worse
during the meditation.
And I kept watching,
and I kept watching,
and it kept getting worse.
And finally, the
meditation ended,
and I called her into the
room with me on a break.
And I said, what was
going on in there?
And she said, I was
analyzing my life.
The moment she said
that, I understood.
If we analyze our life within
the emotion that's driving us,
the answer will never be
in that emotional state,
because the emotion is
the record of the past.
You're thinking in
the box of the past.
>>REGINA: Right.
Exactly.
>>DISPENZA: You take
people, and you get them
beyond their emotions,
they will look back,
and they'll have the answer.
And I don't answer questions
anymore in my workshops,
because I know that
if a person's going
through something,
they're not going
to hear anything
I say that isn't
equal to their emotional state.
Change their emotional
state, and not only
do they have their own
realization of self,
but more information
makes it in.
So in high beta, when you're
aroused and you're stressed,
it's not a time to learn.
It's time to react.
It's not a time for
growth, and creation,
and long-term building
projects, and trusting.
>>REGINA: It's a
reactionary period.
>>DISPENZA: It's not a
time to trust the unknown.
It's a time to brace
yourself for the unknown,
because the unknown usually
means something dangerous.
So then, we have to
lay down the very thing
we used our whole life to get
what we want for something
greater to occur.
Now that is a skill.
Because our students over time
can change their brainwave
states in a very
short amount of time,
because they've
practiced doing it.
Once they are able to get beyond
their analytical mind, what
separates the conscious mind
from the subconscious mind
is the analytical mind.
So in order for us to program,
reprogram, the subconscious,
we've got to thinking.
So if you're analyzing your
life while you're meditating,
you might as well
open your eyes,
because your brainwave
patterns, you're
not accessing the
subconscious system.
So we've seen over and over
again that we can teach that.
And people can get
really good at it.
It doesn't depend-- it has no
function of how old you are,
or what your background is.
It's just a skill.
>>REGINA: OK.
So I have a question here.
So people come in.
There are usually very specific
things they are focused on,
specific things they'd like
to reverse or transform.
Is it enough, if you
can get to that place
where you're in that
lovely state of meditation,
where you're in that void,
and you don't want to go home,
you want to stay where
you are, and you're
feeling that kind
of eternal bliss
that we're bathed in all the
time, just not dialed into.
Is that enough to create
the transformation,
or do they have to actually
apply it to a specific thing
they're working on, and
revision it, so to speak.
>>DISPENZA: The answer's both.
There's so many times-- and this
has happened to me in my life
many times, and we've seen
it with a lot of students.
Wholeness is the perfect
place to create from.
But you and I think that
creation is an effort.
It's actually not.
There's a delicate
balance between intention
and surrender.
If you over-intend,
that's trying.
And we've all done that.
>>REGINA: Right.
And you can feel it.
You can feel it.
The brain is clamped
down and tight.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
It's not working.
And then if you
over-surrender, you're lazy,
and you're lethargic,
and you're uninspired.
But when you really get
clear on what you want,
and you've created, and then
you surrender, and you relax,
and you trust in the outcome,
it's a very delicate thing
that we can only talk around.
It's hard to explain.
So in a sense, yes.
In a state of wholeness, all
the things that you thought
you wanted, you no longer want.
Because how could you
want when you feel whole?
>>REGINA: You're blissed out.
>>DISPENZA: There's
nothing to want.
You're whole.
So think about this.
Most people, they say,
oh, I want wealth.
Right?
But really, what
they want is freedom.
Right?
They want to be able to
do whatever they want,
whenever they want.
>>REGINA: They want
to bring whatever
the wealth would bring them.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
But they want the
emotion of freedom.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DISPENZA: So we
say to our students,
well, if you want
freedom from wealth,
why don't you just feel free?
I mean, that's what
you're really after.
So then you can condition the
body into a state of freedom.
And incidentally, when a
person is whole, and relaxed,
and satisfied with himself
in the present moment,
and at the same time connected
to a vision in the future,
that's when it always happens.
We've seen it over
and over again.
So it's that delicate balance.
It's not too much yin.
It's not too much yang.
It's the combination
between the two.
And then, what people
really want is inner joy.
What they want is inner peace.
And when you start
in the work, you
think about all these things
in the veneer, like the sports
car, or the boat, or the
relationship, or the whatever.
The material things.
But as you start realizing
that you're making changes,
and you're feeling
happier from within,
you're less interested
in that external stuff.
I mean me, personally, I
love the mystical moment.
I love the moments
that rock my world,
where I can't go back
to business as usual.
And there are people in
our work, when I tell you,
they have had some very
unusual experiences.
I can tell you one right now.
>>REGINA: Tell.
>>DISPENZA: I talk about
this woman in the book.
I was just in Australia
a few days ago.
And last time I was
there last year,
we were doing this meditation
where we open our focus,
and we become nobody, no one,
no thing, nowhere and no time,
to begin to invest your
energy in the unknown.
And the longer you
linger in the unknown,
the more you create
opportunity in your life.
But if you, as the
quantum observer,
keep focusing on the known, the
material, people, and things,
and places in your external
life, your body, your face,
your emotions, the predictable
future, the memory of the past,
then you keep
focusing on the known,
and you will keep investing
your energy into the known,
and you'll keep
creating the known.
So she slipped into
this beautiful place.
And I was watching
her in the audience.
It was a big audience in Sydney.
And all of a sudden,
I kind of leaned over.
And with her eyes
closed, I went like this.
And with her eyes closed, she
went, oh, and she waved at me.
And I had two trainers
sitting on the opposite side
of the room, and I
called them over.
And I went like
this, I went over,
and she was waving
about 30 feet away.
And I pointed like that.
And the moment I pointed
at her, she went like this.
She waved over here.
She waved over there.
And she waved over there.
And my trainer said,
what is going on?
I said, you focus on the
unknown, you get the unknown.
So then we had a more
progressive workshop
in Melbourne the
following weekend.
She came again.
She was in the way back.
In the middle of the
meditations, I'd go like this,
and then she would wave from
the back with her eyes closed.
She was seeing.
>>REGINA: She was in the field.
Of course.
>>DISPENZA: She was
seeing without eyes.
The brain sees, not the eyes.
So she was selected as
one of our trainers,
and she came to the
Pacific Northwest,
and we train our trainers
for six days, 12 hours a day.
And at the end of the day,
we review all the content
that they learn in about
a 15-20 minute meditation.
And while she was
in that meditation,
she was going like this.
She kept looking behind her,
seeing one of the staff.
And I knew exactly
what was happening.
She was seeing 360
degrees, and she
was in the habit of
opening her eyes to see.
Now, it gets weird,
because Jeffrey Fannin,
our neuroscientist,
was in town, and we
were measuring some
of the core functions.
And I said, let's
measure our trainers.
So we hook her up
to the brain scan,
and the computer's
over here, and her back
is to us way over there.
And first, they do eyes open,
and then eyes open on task,
then eyes closed.
And then, they move
into a meditation.
They get some baselines.
So she does all the
different baseline processes,
and I'm looking at the
computer, and all of a sudden
her visual cortex
just lights up,
which means she's seeing, right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DISPENZA: And then her
frontal lobe lights up with it,
really intensely
with a lot of energy.
And Jeffrey says, oh, look.
She's visualizing.
I said, no, she's seeing.
>>REGINA: She's seeing.
>>DISPENZA: And he goes, what?
And she has her back to
us, and I go like this.
And she goes.
And he goes, what is going on?
>>REGINA: [LAUGHING] I love it.
>>DISPENZA: And I said,
you focus on the unknown,
you get the unknown.
Now, I was just in Melbourne
in Sydney this past week,
and I put her into meditation.
And I had her move
around the room.
And I had one of my trainers
turn his cellphone on.
And she was so angry,
because with her eyes closed,
she saw the cellphone.
I wrote something on the board.
I wanted her to read
what was on the board.
Consciousness is non-local.
She was in the field.
She was able to pick
up all that data.
Now, here's the point.
You cannot go back to business
as usual after a few of those
experiences.
Can you?
>>REGINA: No.
>>DISPENZA: I mean, her life
is never going to be the same.
And she's non-local.
She can go anywhere now.
She's in the field.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now, that's taking
me into another part
of the conversation I
wanted to talk to you about.
And that has to
do-- I mean, you're
talking about remote
viewing, essentially.
And we know that can be trained.
They even do it in the
military, and they've
used these programs
for decades, of course.
But if you go alongside
that, we can also
look at the subject
of remote healing.
And so let's talk about
how our intention,
our going into the
non-local field,
and it can affect
the non-local field
of another for their
own spontaneous healing.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
Wow, this is a
great conversation.
In our work, I say
that all disease
is a lowering of frequency.
And I say that all disease
is a lowering of frequency
and an incoherent
vibration of frequency.
So as the frequency
of matter slows down,
it's more prone to the
laws of thermodynamics.
Primarily, the Second Law of
Thermodynamics is entropy.
Things tend to move
towards disorder.
They break down because
they're just matter.
So when we live by the
hormones of stress,
and we're functioning primarily
in an incoherent state,
it begins to, over time,
to entrain the body
to begin to break down,
because we're more matter
and less energy.
We're more particle
and less wave.
So we're pretty much going
to break down in time.
There's no energy, right?
So as an example,
you have a field
of information around your body.
How do we know that?
Because the atom's
99.999% nothing.
But now, there's
a piece of matter
that matter functions as, you
know, but it's very small,
infinitesimal part.
But if you take two atoms
and you bring them together,
you form a molecule.
And that molecule shares
a field of information.
That field of
information is where
the electrons are interacting.
But the moment those
two atoms join,
now they have
different properties.
They're a molecule.
And if you keep
adding more atoms,
you keep creating
a bigger molecule,
and it becomes a chemical.
And that chemical is sharing an
invisible field of information
that's giving life to
the characteristics
of that particular
atom-- I mean molecule.
So then if you take chemicals,
and you put the chemicals
together, you
create an organelle.
And if you take organelles
and you put them together,
you've created a cell.
And a cell has an invisible
field of information
that's instructing, and giving
consciousness, and energy,
and information to allow
that cell to function.
So that cell is having
information communicated
within it faster than
the speed of light.
So if it's happening faster
than the speed of light,
this new field of information
biology and photons
is saying that the cell is
connected to some field that's
instructing all of
those things that's
happening at 100,000
times per second.
It's not charges doing it.
There's an intelligence that's
organizing this whole thing.
So if you form cells
together, you create tissues.
Those tissues have a
field of information.
If you fold tissues on
themselves, you create organs.
And that organ has a
field of information.
How do we know?
Because if a person has a liver
transplant and all of a sudden
they love potato
chips, then that's
because there's a field
of information that's
contributing to their field.
If you take organs,
you create systems.
Musculoskeletal system,
digestive system,
reproductive system,
cardiovascular system.
They share a field
of information.
And put those systems
together, you form a body.
And that body has a
field of information.
Now that field of
information is what
is giving life to the body.
This is you and me.
This is the real true self.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DISPENZA: OK?
Now let's just suppose you
react to your co-worker,
you react to your ex-husband,
you react to bad news.
You think about a problem in
your life that makes you angry.
The moment you do
that, you are drawing
from this field of energy,
and you're taking that energy,
and that's beginning
to release adrenaline.
And you're turning that
energy into liquid chemicals.
The moment that
happens, your field
goes from about this
wide to about this wide.
Because you consume the
energy to go ahead and begin
to process it into chemistry.
Why?
Because you're in emergency, and
you've got to use that energy.
That's why the mother can lift
the car up with her daughter
underneath, and
pull the car out.
She doesn't say, oh, my god,
I ate carbohydrates today,
or I haven't worked
out in two weeks.
She changes her energy, right?
So that's energy that does that.
So if you keep mobilizing
all this energy,
you keep drawing
from the field, you
have no field of information.
So now, matter begins
to become incoherent
and begins to break down.
So then, when you begin
to elevate your energy,
not only just elevate
your energy, but coherent,
organized energy--
when we know this,
that when you have an
incoherent message, like a group
of drummers playing
all at the same time,
and they're out
of rhythm, and you
get four great
drummers coming in,
I don't care if there's
a thousand people.
Within a very short amount of
time, everybody's got rhythm.
That's called coherence.
The brain works
exactly the same.
So it's that coherent
signature that
begins to entrain
incoherent signature.
In other words, coherence begins
to create order in disorder.
And that's called healing.
We could say that matter
is lifted to a new mind,
whereas that energy
slows down, it
begins to create more
orderliness and matter.
So we do a lot of
work with coherence
in blessing different
centers of the body
to create coherent
fields around them.
And we've had people
heal themselves
of food allergies, and bladder
disease, and thyroid cancers,
and brain tumors, and
all kinds of things,
because they're creating a
coherent message in the field,
so that matter can draw from
a new field of information,
because there's
information there.
So then if you're able to
say, here's an example.
We had a lady that had really
bad food sensitivities.
She couldn't eat anything.
And she did a
particular meditation
and blessed her one
particular center.
And in a very short amount
of time in a workshop,
she was eating
everything she wanted
to eat that she could never eat.
Now, we do meditations where
we also heal other people.
So if I created a coherent
signature in my field
that took away my
food sensitivities,
and a person laying
down-- coincidentally,
this woman that she was about
to heal was living in India,
got a bacterial infection,
and now all of a sudden
had the same kind of
food sensitivities.
She said, I've healed myself
of food sensitivities.
This lady also has
food sensitivities.
She healed that lady.
And in one particular
healing, she was healed.
I had dinner with
both of these people.
And they were eating
whatever they wanted.
That was not the
case beforehand.
Now, the next question
is, if I've healed myself,
and I'm able to heal
someone in front of me
by creating coherent
signature, can I heal someone
on the other side of the planet?
Well, let's see.
What piece of
knowledge could I apply
to this model to
have the experience?
Well, consciousness
is non-local.
If I get into that field
beyond space and time,
I now know, because
of quantum physics,
if we mingle two particles,
and you shoot them
in opposite directions,
when you affect this one,
this one is affected
faster than the speed
of light, which means they're
affected beyond space and time.
Well, if I understand
that, I've healed myself,
I've healed this
person, I should
be able to do the same thing and
hold the image of that person,
and be able to lay a coherent
signature into their field.
And I don't have to
literally be there.
So the quantum model
allows us to build
greater understandings.
And so, I like to
think that when
you have an experience of
your own personal healing,
you're more prone to
believe in the next step.
If I healed myself, maybe
I can heal someone else.
If you're able to
heal that next person,
then you should be able to
say, god, I've healed myself,
I healed the next person.
Do I really need to
physically be present?
OK.
Well, what's the quantum model?
Now I understand
consciousness is non-local,
and I can take it
to the next level.
>>REGINA: OK.
So when you're in
the process of this,
then, it would have to
be the same principle
that the coherent field
that you're interjecting
or co-mingling with
their field has
to have a superior charge
to it of the person who
is in the declining
or degenerating state.
>>DISPENZA: That's
a great point.
Your energy has to
be higher than them.
And I don't mean energetically,
like a superiority thing.
>>REGINA: No, it's the
strength and purity, whatever
you want to call it, of
that love and intention.
>>DISPENZA: You
have to give thanks
in a state of absolute divinity.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: In order
to emulate the divine,
you have to be divine.
In order to emulate the creator,
you have to be a creator.
In order for you to create
something unlimited,
you have to feel unlimited.
And when you begin to open
your focus because you have
to connect to the
field, and then you
begin to lay information
into that person's body,
you can't hope, you can't
wish, you can't pray,
you can't feel bad for
them, you can't feel guilty,
you can't feel sorry for them.
You literally have to be in a
whole 'nother state of being.
And that is the
divine aspect of us.
When we perform our
miracles, we always say,
it was the power
within me that did it.
And when we don't
perform our miracles,
we say, wow, I was my
limited human emotional self.
I think making that transition--
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
You made something clear
for me, because I've
been involved with
remote healing for years.
But I noticed something.
When it's an emergency,
where something
has to be reacted to on
my part very quickly,
someone needs help
immediately, pure, clean, boom.
I mean, anything can be
overturned with that.
But if it's something
where I have a chance
to mull it over and think, ah--
>>DISPENZA: Analyze.
>>REGINA: Analyze.
It's degenerative.
Oh, I don't know.
I find that the
muddiness of my own
thought having intruded
upon it might not
get the same effect at all.
>>DISPENZA: Exactly.
Exactly.
So when it happens
immediately, when
you're presented with a
situation immediately,
I mean, boom, you're able
to just move in and move
into that state very quickly.
I mean, when Jesus
perform his miracles,
you know, when he
pulled them off,
he said, I was the
Son of God today.
When he didn't
perform his miracles,
he said, I was the
Son of Man today.
I was my human, emotional self.
So it's making that switch,
then, is what it's about.
And I love the idea
of remote healing
because it's a bigger model.
>>REGINA: I do, too.
>>DISPENZA: But we have to
build that model in order for us
to reach a certain
level of acceptance.
>>REGINA: OK.
When I talked to you last
time you were here in Boulder,
we were just saying
goodbye, and we said,
OK, next time we
get together, we
need to talk about this thing.
And it was-- I wrote it down.
It was about the courting
of our non-linear selves
in space-time.
>>DISPENZA: Oh, god.
You wanna talk about that?
>>REGINA: Otherwise, we
have two directions to go.
One of them is kind
of more very grounded.
It's a little on
the darker side.
Talking about what
happens when we
have this overly reactive,
addictive, neurochemical
program going on, and how
that affects our society,
and the allowance of
things like drones.
And we can go that
direction, or we
can go into this
non-linear self.
>>DISPENZA: OK.
Well, let's talk about space
and time and time and space,
because it's a very
interesting phenomenon.
In this dimension
where we live, where
there is an abundance of space--
I mean, space goes on forever.
Right?
And because space goes on
forever, we have dimension.
So in order for us
to experience time,
we have to move through space.
So if I'm going to get up from
here and go to the restroom,
it's going to take me a certain
amount of time to get there.
The faster I move, the
shorter the time there is.
So in order for us
to experience time,
we have to move through space.
And for the most part,
that's how we create things
that we want in our life.
We set goals, we
get our behaviors
to match our intentions,
we learn from our mistakes,
we modify our behaviors,
and we keep going.
When you truly slip
into this quantum place,
and we do this in
some of our workshops,
there's an inverse
phenomenon that happens.
In other words, if you're
truly in the present moment,
Regina, that's the
moment time is eternal.
Now the way that we
experience that realm
is that when you
move through time,
you experience different space.
So you would think that-- I
know this is very abstract.
But you would think that there
is a past life, a present life,
and a future life.
Well, that's how it
looks from down here.
But when you get to
this place, they're
all stacked on
top of each other.
All of these realities
are happening all at once,
because time is abundant.
So then, as you begin to
change your vibration,
you change your energy,
you change your frequency,
as you slow or speed
up your frequency,
you can experience
another aspect
in space, another
reality that you're
living in simultaneously.
And people in our
work, we do this work.
And when you have
one of those moments,
you can look across the
table and look at somebody
and understand that
they are absolutely
not that body they're wearing.
That you know them from
another place and another time.
And that's when the
mysticism begins
to really get interesting.
I've had some amazing
moments in this other realm.
And as I've said earlier, you
cannot go back to business
as usual.
But it takes a change
in neurochemistry.
It takes getting a little
further than you typically
like to go.
And you really have
to disassociate.
And it's kind of a wild ride.
>>REGINA: Are we talking about
anything as simple as, perhaps,
beginning with just
moving into what
is perceived as-- I know
time and space isn't linear,
but as perceived as a
past life experience,
and reliving it fully.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Because when
you go in that, I mean,
the chemicals are the same
as what happens in this time.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
But in that moment, you wouldn't
perceive it as a past life.
You would perceive
it as a now life--
>>REGINA: Just an
alternate reality.
>>DISPENZA: An
alternate reality that's
stacked right on top
of the other one.
And all of it's happening
at the same time,
and you see this cord
of your personality,
of your identity, of your soul,
moving through all of these.
And when you have that
experience in that place,
the only way I can
describe it is you
understand who you are
in this now better.
So I think the biggest
lie that we've ever
been told and been
conditioned into believing
is that we're linear
beings living linear life.
We are multi-dimensional
beings living
a multi-dimensional life.
And once that little
blip gets out,
people are going to start
becoming very empowered.
Because this is only a
very small slice of what
we can experience.
>>REGINA: Absolutey.
OK.
So let's stay on this
theme for just a moment,
though, for people who have
been interested in exploring
the notion of past lives.
Let's say, if we are going
into these spaces of fullness,
and bliss, and awareness, total
awareness and nothingness,
and we choose to take a look at
something that may be playing
out in this time, how would
you reference that or frame it?
What would you say to yourself?
Can you show me a reality
I may have experienced?
>>DISPENZA: Oh, how
do you unfold that?
>>REGINA: How do you
unfold that languaging,
so you're not necessarily
anchoring it into the past.
Because it's still useful.
Even if you call it a past
life, it's still useful.
You still go in there.
>>DISPENZA: Well, we do
that work in our workshops.
It takes about two or three
days to prepare the brain
and body to get there.
But it's coordinates.
It's a coordinate.
Just like you're
thinking about going
from Boulder to Los Angeles.
>>REGINA: But can't your
intention set the coordinate?
I want to see whatever
has programmed this.
>>DISPENZA: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
But you'll never get
what you expect to get.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I know.
That's true.
I've been through a lot of it.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, so that's
the cool part about it.
>>REGINA: It's a wild ride.
I love it.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
It's a wild ride.
Yeah, so there's
techniques that we use.
But really, what I want
to say about all of this
is that the beauty behind
this interdimensional moment
is that you have a
greater understanding
of the mystery of self.
And so, you're
not so prone to be
so upset about the person who
cuts you off on the freeway,
or the coworker that's talking
about you behind-- you've
just been in another dimension.
You think you would really care.
You belong somewhere else.
And so, it begins to create
a lot of speculation of,
is there a future Regina
that is already enlightened?
That is already
mastering-- has mastered
herself, that can talk
to the Regina who's
sitting here right now?
And can you co-mingle that?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: And then, is
this Regina now connected
to that future?
And can that future
send a signal to now?
I mean, it just gets
very, very interesting.
>>REGINA: Yes.
As in the past, you
can go forward as well.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: As it's non-linear.
Absolutely.
OK.
So as we're starting
to wind down on time
here, although it just seems
like a blink of an eye,
I want to talk a little
bit about the meditation
in the back of the book,
why you structured it
the way you did
in terms of space.
Just the space portion of
it, and why-- you have it
on your site, so a
person can go to the site
and download a
guided meditation.
The same meditation
that's in here.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
So the first half of the
book is about the science
and the understanding.
The information.
The second half of the book
is about transformation.
So we have two meditations
that, either one of these,
you can work, and
it's about changing
one belief or
perception, or changing
two beliefs and perception.
If you want to do a 45 minute
meditation, you can change one.
If you want to do an hour
meditation, you can change two.
But they're available.
We start our meditations
every single time
with an open focus,
because we want
a person to take their
attention off their body.
We don't want them to
focus on the material.
We want them to
open their focus.
And where you place
your attention
is where you place your energy.
And so as you begin
to open your focus,
the brain gets coherent,
as we've talked about.
You're taking your attention
off matter, and objects,
and things, and you're
putting it on that field.
And you're thinking
and analyzing
less, because you're
sensing and feeling.
And that's when brainwaves start
to move from beta into alpha,
and ultimately into theta.
And that's when you move
into the operating system.
Now you're ready to change
your belief and perception,
because you're in
the programming.
>>REGINA: Any final thoughts?
We just have a
couple minutes left.
I mean, we've covered
so much, and then
we haven't covered
half of what--
we could've done four
hours easily here today.
>>DISPENZA: Well, I want
to end with something
that may be
practical for people.
There's a group of women
south of Los Angeles that
were all clinically blind.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's a good story.
>>DISPENZA: And quickly,
when the scientists studied
these Cambodian women, there
was 150 to 200 of them.
They found out that they
had almost perfect vision,
but their brain wasn't seeing.
And so, when they
interviewed these women,
they found that these
women were subjected
to the Khmer Rouge, and
the Dictator Pot Pol.
And these women saw
the brutal murder
of their children, of their
husbands, of their brothers,
and of all of their kin.
And the experience branded
neurologically and emotionally,
causing them to move into
a different perception
of reality.
In other words, the brain
didn't want to see any longer.
They cried 'til they no
longer wanted to see.
So then, what have
we experienced
in our life that
causes us to not
want to see, to not want to
hear, to not want to feel?
So then the experience
changed their biology.
So in order for us to change
a belief or perception
about ourself and
our life, that when
we make a decision with
that level of intention,
it carries an amplitude
of energy that's
greater than the past
experience, that's the moment
our biology responds
to a new mind.
That's when we come out
of our resting state.
In other words,
the snake charmer
who's handling the snake and
gets bit by the poisonous snake
doesn't say, geez, I wonder
if I'm going to die today.
The priest who moves into a
state of religious ecstasy
in the Deep South
doesn't say, oh, I'm
going to drink this
strict strychnine,
and I wonder if I'm going
to get poisoned today.
The mother who lifts the child
from under the car doesn't say,
god, I wonder if I
worked out enough.
The decision is final.
And it's energy, then, that
is the epiphenomena of matter.
And when we change our
energy, we change our life.
>>REGINA: Amen.
>>DISPENZA: [LAUGHING]
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
>>DISPENZA: You're welcome.
>>REGINA: And because we, again,
have barely gotten started,
hopefully in another few
months, you'll be back.
>>DISPENZA: OK.
>>REGINA: As always, never
enough time with Dr. Joe.
And we'll be coming back again.
I certainly-- I hope so anyway.
Meanwhile, you'll
be doing yourself
a big favorite to pick
up a copy of the book,
"You Are the Placebo
Effect," for the science
and for the valuable meditation
at the end of the book.
It's a template for
changing your life.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]